In this lecture, we're going to create our third page object class.
So we've already created a page object class for the automation test in home page, and we've also created
one for the test store home page.
So the next page I'd like to create is if I was to select the product, and this is the product page.
So here I have a number of different options available to me, such as I can select size, choose a
color, increase or decrease quantity and add to cart.
So what I'm doing here is I'm construct in page by page.
I'm creating classes of how a user with interact with the website.
So this is another page that the user would interact with when they're purchasing a product.
So I'm going to create my third page object based on this web page.
So I am going to take into account the size, the quantity, increase and decrease and add to cart.
So I'm going to keep this fairly simple for demonstration purposes.
And for that reason, I'm not going to include the color elements, but that is something you can include
if you wish to do so.
So I'm going to go back to the clips and I am going to right click the page objects package, select
new and select class, and I'm going to call this class.
Shop.
Product page and then click Finish.
So again, I am going to create a web drive, for instance.
So public web driver.
Driver.
And that would need imports.
And again.
And the next thing I'm going to do is create the fields that we need that will contain the selectors.
So I'm going to write by.
And the first element I'm going to do is to do with size.
So I'm going to call this size option and it's going to equal by.
And if I go back to the website, I am going to right click a size dropdown menu and inspect.
And I went to go to run amok velocity.
Well, I am provided the following options.
So I'm just going to take this second one here, so I'm going to copy it.
And I'm going to write thoughts, scissors, selector and paste that locator value.
The next one I'm going to do is quantity.
Increase.
Aton and it's going to equal.
Bye.
And if we go back.
I am then going to focus on this up arrow and right click and inspect.
If I go to Roanoke Velocity, I'm given the following options.
And this one here seems like a nice, simple one.
So I'm going to copy that.
And I'm going to write dot CSA selector and I'm going to place a value like so.
The third one is to decrease the quantity.
So I'm going to buy.
Quantity
decrease and it's going to equal buy this CSA selector.
And again, I'm going to focus on the down arrow and inspect.
And I'm going to take this value here.
And I'm going to put it in double quotes like so.
And then the next one is the add to cart button.
So I'm going to write by.
Add to.
Can't beat an off it with their equals by.
And if I go back to the website.
I'm going to inspect the bottom.
And I'm presented with the following options.
So I'm just going to take this top one.
So I'm going to copy that.
And I'm going to write, thought, set a selector and place that value like so.
So I'm going to get one more locator.
So as a user.
If I'm on this page, I may find or decide that this isn't the product for me.
So I may want to go back to the home page to select another product.
So that's why I think it'd be good to include a locator for this home link.
So when clicked it will take me back to the home page so that I can select an alternative product.
So I could quite simply right click this link inspect.
And go to run amok velocity and I'm provided we have some options here.
But I think this is a good opportunity for us to get some practice by writing our own custom locator.
So if I look at the document object model, you'll see that this line here has been highlighted.
So we can see this is a span element and it's got text on home.
So I can write a path locator to focus on these elements.
And we can use and validate this by using the textbox from manual velocity.
So I'm going to write the next locator or write in to forward slashes.
And because it's a spent element, I'm going to write span.
Then I need to write.
I open and close in square bracket.
And what I could write here is text is round brackets equals.
And in single quotes I could provide the text home.
So now if I press enter.
Notice how one element has been found.
And if I minimise this a bit and présents again, you'll see the browser has located that link.
So we've used the text method.
And the text method allows us to search the text of an element.
So that is one way of writing a customer locator.
An alternative instead of using text is to quite simply use dots equals.
If I use dot equals home.
You see that?
That works.
Also.
So when we use the dots in X path, this is called a context item expression.
And this is because it refers to the context item.
So this could be a match with a node such as the element, attributes or text.
So all this means is that by using dot equals.
So we started with span.
So he's looking for a certain element.
And then dot equals is then looking for foreign nodes.
In our case, it equals home.
So it's looking for text.
Hence why I was able to find this particular element.
So that's quite difficult to explain.
But I don't want to spend too much time on it.
If you're interested in learning about the DOT equals expression, please look up context item expression
in a search engine where you'll be able to read more on it.
But for now and as I mode it, this element or this locator works, I'm going to simply copy this and
go back to my code and I'm going to write by.
Home.
Page link and it's going to equal.
By.
X path and in double quotes, I'm just going to pace up value with a semicolon at the end.
So these are the locators that I think I need in order to complete my test.
So the next thing I'm going to do is write a constructor.
So public shop, product page, round brackets and an open close embrace.
And inside those round brackets, like the previous lectures, I'm going to write Web driver.
Driver.
And in the constructor, I'm going to write this.
The driver equals driver.
So the next thing I need to do is create my first public method.
So I'm going through a public web element and I'm going to call this get size option.
I'm going to need to import Web Benjamin's.
And I'm going to simply return.
Driver got to find elements and I'm going to pass this size option filled above like so.
With a semicolon.
So I need to do the same for the remaining fields.
So rather than bore you as it's very, very simple, I'm just going to copy a very simple concept to
provide the correct field for each method.
So you can either practice writing the remainder yourself or you can download the code, which I would
add to the lecture for you.
So in my case, I'm just going to copy the remaining methods and I'm just going to place them.
So I hope this lecture has been useful for you.
And in the next lecture will create the next page objects class.
Thank you for watching.